.Dd $Mdocdate: July 18 2022 $
.Dt LUA_SETHOOK 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lua_sethook
.Nd sets the debugging hook function, function indicator
.Bq -0, +0, -
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In lua.h
.Ft int
.Fn lua_sethook "lua_State *L" "lua_Hook f" "int mask" "int count"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn lua_sethook
sets the debugging hook function.
.Pp
Argument f is the hook function. mask specifies on which events the hook will
be called: it is formed by a bitwise or of the constants
.Dv LUA_MASKCALL ,
.Dv LUA_MASKRET ,
.Dv LUA_MASKLINE ,
and
.Dv LUA_MASKCOUNT .
The count argument is only meaningful when the mask includes
.Dv LUA_MASKCOUNT .
For each event, the hook is called as explained below:
.Bl -tag -width "The return hook:"
.It Sy The call hook:
is called when the interpreter calls a function.
The hook is called just after Lua enters the new function, before the function
gets its arguments.
.It Sy The return hook:
is called when the interpreter returns from a function.
The hook is called just before Lua leaves the function.
You have no access to the values to be returned by the function.
.It Sy The line hook:
is called when the interpreter is about to start the execution of a new line of
code, or when it jumps back in the code (even to the same line).
(This event only happens while Lua is executing a Lua function.)
.It Sy The count hook:
is called after the interpreter executes every count instructions.
(This event only happens while Lua is executing a Lua function.)
.El
.Pp
A hook is disabled by setting mask to zero.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Rs
.%A Roberto Ierusalimschy
.%A Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo
.%A Waldemar Celes
.%T Lua 5.1 Reference Manual
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn lua_sethook
manual page is based on Lua Reference Manual 5.1 and was created by Sergey Bronnikov.
